I would like to say a good morning, everyone. Good morning and welcome everyone. Thank you. Thank
you. Welcome.
And as you all know, this morning I am going to offer the empowerment of the Vajrapani, Vajrapani.
And in order to do empowerment, and always it is part of the ceremony or the empowerment, give
introductions.
And then do the involvement. So the first I am going to give brief introductions.
Then the Vajrapani, who is Vajrapani, what is the, where this teaching comes from, and then what is
, what means in our room.
So those are the three subdivisions that I will go over these introductions.
The first is this, who is Vajrapani? Vajrapani is simple to tell. Vajrapani is Buddha, totally
enlightened.
Vajrapani appeared in many different forms because when you reach the Buddha, or when you become
the Buddha,
what is the purpose of becoming Buddha in Mahayana teaching?
In Mahayana teaching, the principle purpose of becoming Buddha is to benefit, to help, to support
to all living beings.
So that is really fundamental goal, goal of becoming enlightenment.
Dear God, becoming enlightenment wants all purpose, become enlightenment for the purpose of others.
And for that reason, Vajrapani is totally enlightened beings, but yet Vajrapani appeared in many
different forms in order to benefit for all beings.
Vajrapani appeared in one of the also great Bodhisattvas.
Among at Bodhisattvas, Vajrapani is known as at one of the great Bodhisattvas, Vajrapani.
Then Vajrapani is appeared also in the Buddha teaching at our center, known as Vedic Chetaka, or D
urya Number Nyumbak, very famous cleansing purification Buddha, known as Durya Number Nyumbak.
In it appeared in Sanskrit, Vedic Chetaka. That is very famous Durya Number Nyumbak.
Then Vajrapani appeared in the form of again the principle deity of the inner anthems, known as Vaj
rasattvas.
So Vajrasattva as Vajrapani appeared in the form of the Vajrasattva.
Again Vajrasattva is known as the principle Buddha of all the Buddhas.
Even in the teaching said, Vajrasattva is embodied in all Buddhas that we can encompass entirely
Buddhas, one hundred Buddhas.
For example, one hundred Buddha, peaceful rather Buddhas can be summarized into five dhyana Buddhas
.
That five dhyana Buddha can be summarized in one Buddha or come down to the one Buddha as Vajrasatt
vas.
So this Vajrasattva is lord and the principle mandala of the entirely, the all the inanatas.
Then Vajrasattva appeared in the form of the Rata deities, very Rata deities.
Then Vajrapani, known as Vedic Chellayas, also Vedic Chellayas, very rapid.
At that time, Vedic Chellayas, Vedic Chellayas, Vedic Chellayas,
represent the entire action of the all the Buddhas, the entire action of the Buddhas, the activity
of the Buddhas.
So Vajrapani is again a Buddha, ultimate state of the Rata deities.
Rata is not just an angel, a form of kenghini, by the power of compassion, expressing to benefit to
all the beings.
For the power of compassion a big form of wrath, wrath to remove and to cleanse and purify and
destroy,
destroying the very difficult to show you, such as ego cleanse.
And that is Vedic Bhanis.
So therefore, many of them.
And then Vedic Bhanis is very high, almost very Vedic.
Vedic Bhanis is no other than the Buddha, some of the Buddhas.
So therefore, Vedic Bhanis are very, very special Buddhas.
Also Vedic Bhanis are known as the three, among three Buddhas.
Known as, such as, Manjushri, Jairasa or Awalokiteshara, and Vedic Bhanis.
Those are the three principal Bodhisattvas, or even many times they have three Buddhas.
At that time, for example, Manjushri represented all, embodiment all enlightenment Buddhas.
Bodhi of the old enlightened Buddhas.
And Awalokiteshara represented, or Jairasa represented all the speech of the Buddhas.
And Vedic Bhanis represented all the western mind or the power of the old Buddhas.
And therefore, again, known as the three Buddhas of three families.
Bodhi, speech and mind.
Bodhi Buddha, Manjushri, speech Buddha, Awalokiteshara,
and the western mind of the Vedic Bhanis.
So Vedic Bhanis are very pervasive and very essential Buddhas of the generally Mahayana teachings,
and particularly in the outer tenderer, in the tenderers.
And then Vedic Bhanis also appeared from the disciple of the Vadakshatamunus.
Many times, even Mahayana teachings.
So the Mahayana teachings mentioned that Vedic Bhanis always appeared,
appeared as disciple and bodyguard of the Vadakshatamunus.
There is also the three stories.
Once upon a time when the Buddha was residing in the Vadakshatamunus,
and the king of that country, the Vadakshatamunus, known as Adyachathara.
or in its very full, known as Mathida.
Mathida was influenced by Devadatta.
Devadatta is always very challenging to the Buddha, or contentious.
Contentious?
Contentious to the Buddha, even when he was young, or when they were young.
Devadatta was also born as the same kind in the family.
He was always wanting to be challenged with the Buddha.
But however, Buddha become the spirit, even the youthful state,
before he became the Buddha.
So he couldn't really challenge.
But ever since, he did not give up his contagious, that mental attitude, never.
So when Buddha become as a great teacher, as enlightened beings,
teacher of so many beings, but also he like to challenge,
he become as also as like practitioners, but not following the Buddha's.
Since he is already royal connected, or royal kind of born, Devadatta was born,
so he become very friend of the king Adyachathara.
Adyachathara, and he influenced him.
Adyachathara and Devadatta both decided they are going to kill the Buddha.
If they kill the Buddha, then he will become, Devadatta will become the less superior teacher.
And Adyachathara will be supported and guided by the Devadatta.
They become really a very good friend.
So they are trying to kill the Buddha.
And when the teaching said that one time they throw the big boulder,
big boulder as like canopy, can be thrown to the top of the Buddha
where the Buddha is residing in Watcher's Creek Mountains.
So he threw his ancient technique as like a big boulder, as like bone,
like shooting, shooting throw that back.
But with that big boulder, when he throw it to all the Buddha to kill the Buddha,
they accidentally in the teaching said, "Vedya Bani, throw his vedya."
So with that vedya, the boulder becomes smothered in the air as like what they called here,
modern time, like tama-hak missile.
When somebody shooting, they throw it out and kill.
So the vedya bani, the hand of the vedya,
played as tama-hak missiles and destroyed in the air.
That's the really teaching said.
So when the teaching said always,
"Vedya Bani is behind the Buddha many times as a body product."
Many of those are others as the disciple sees.
One is very kind of thirsty, strong, dark, main step, like macho,
looking behind, always the Buddha.
And many disciples asked, "Who is this?"
And they said, "This is the most powerful Buddha of that."
Even Buddha himself said, "I cannot challenge this Buddha."
"I cannot glorify power and dignity and achievement of the vedya bani."
That's what Buddha said.
So this is the vedya bani.
And this is what really vedya bani.
Since the vedya bani is so special Buddhist,
the greatest kindness, completion of the teacher,
Buddha Shakyamuni gives variety of teachings of the vedya bani
in the outer tantra, in the inner tantras.
He gives so many teachings, outer inner tantras, teachings.
And then all this teaching, every teaching, as you all know,
came to Tibet, Tibet in the third century,
in the time of Guru M. Sambhava,
great Master Chantalakata, and great painters on deputies,
his courage and commitment.
He organized an engine to bring the entire Buddha teachings.
Buddha teachings are not just teaching along the scripture,
only the kind of academic, but the realization that really He established.
Therefore, in the Tibetan culture, longer than that, top than that,
longer than that means the teaching of the scripture
that completely established in Tibet at that time.
The pram, the basic Buddhist school teachings,
or the post-Buddha teachings, all the way to the Ayoua teaching,
the academic, the sequential, Vinaya, Sutra, Abhidharma, Tantra,
that we're reading in the English, everything's isolated.
And it's so precise and so perfect and so beautiful
that nothing can be changed in upper,
but nobody can need to correct.
There's nothing more better to be isolated than that.
That's not how they're isolated, beautiful.
The genius, the skilled persons, the emanated, the skilled beings appeared,
time of the Astar's letter and the great masters of India and other countries,
cooperation through the corporate and the Astar's letter, everything.
But not just only that, the thing called taupatin.
The realization, the meaning of that,
not just the academic level on the brain, kind of hovering in the brain,
they observed that teaching, the meaning into the heart
and boosted their realization, exactly as the great teacher, Buddha, explained.
What he explained, every living being inherited, the Buddha nature.
It's just the only question whether you work for that or not.
So these individuals have worked for that as they received teaching
and guided by those great masters, authentic, qualified masters,
practiced the joyful effort, courage and commitment with devotion.
They truly actualized what the teaching said
and boomed up their inner qualities, qualities.
And then what are those narratives? 25 disciples, everyone.
And 35 great nappas.
And 27 of 25 great pima dakinis, or pima disciple.
So many people, really men and women,
get high realization of the human consciousness can achieve.
They achieved all that.
Because they've been helped, they received, as a transcendental,
what's the name of the body.
That is known as taupatimba.
Not just only the sequential, academic, and saying systems existing,
but the meaning that sizzling in the heart and the really guiding mind.
So therefore, at that time, at the end of the century,
the entire Buddha's teachings of the long dhamba and taupatimba,
all the doctrine of the scripture and the doctrines of the realization,
that all burst out there.
At that time, then this teaching came.
The Vaidyabhani teaching came in Tibet.
Tibet.
And the great Master Chantaraki teaching, so many, as well as Mamanamathras.
Chantaraki is known as also an emanation of the Vaidyabhani's.
And in the teaching always, at that time,
the Chantaraki, Chantaraki, three Buddha come through there,
one time and one second, and at the same time,
the Chantaraki established the authentic teaching of the Buddha Chantaraki,
best upon the non-volence, peace, harmony, respect, appreciation,
every living beings.
That was established.
Who are those three Buddhas?
Always said that, "Gurubhema Samvavai is the emanation of the Kireyasav,
Awalokudihara, or the Amitabha."
And Vahitavakkadai is the emanation of the Vaidyabhani.
And the Kireyasav is the emanation of the medushi.
So there are three great, three Bodhisattvas came.
Bodhisattva and Mahasattvas.
Bodhisattva also has around two kinds of Mahas, Bodhisattva.
And let me show it to you.
You saw those, and really, we joined the heart of Mahasattvas.
For example, when we referred to Awalokudihara in the teaching,
always said, "Bodhisattva, Mahasattvas."
It's not just the Bodhisattva, Mahasattvas.
That means, one who is closely enlightened, close to the Buddha.
For example, ten Bodhisattvas, ten Bodhisattvas,
first Bodhi, second Bodhi, third Bodhi.
Those old books are known as Bodhisattvas.
Even when you develop the Bodhisattva truly in your heart and mind,
it will even take a while.
They are called as Bodhisattvas.
But they are not Mahasattvas.
Their achievement is not Mahasattvas.
And who achieved Mahasattva?
Mahasattva, they are the language.
At Bumi, 9th Bumi, 10th Bumi Bodhisattva,
named as Mahasattvas.
Bodhisattva, Mahasattva.
So these three Bodhisattvas, Manjushili, Awalokudihara,
and Vaidya Vanya are the Bodhisattva of Mahasattvas.
So these three Bodhisattva, great Bodhisattva,
came to debate in order to establish a peaceful teaching,
peaceful messages in that country.
And that for that reason,
the emanation of the Vaidya Vanya is the GURUPYA MASANBHA.
Emination of the Vaidya Vanya is the CHANDA RATUVA.
Emination of the Manjushili is the Vaid.
Those are known as the three books.
So that established.
And particularly, GURUPYA MASANBHA, CHANDA RATUVA gave a lot of teachings
on the Vaidya Vanyas.
Awalokudihara and Enandandara.
Enandandara, this Vaidya Vanya is connected with the adhirukha teachings.
And that was GURUPYA MASANBHA.
Why did that teach?
So from ever since, this teaching of the practice of the Vaidya Vanya
has become very popular practices in Tibet, all schools of Tibet Buddhism, ever since.
And so that is really how, who is Vaidya Vanya?
Vanya, how this teaching came from him.
This is a very teaching of the Buddha Shakyamuni
and that continuity to Vaidya Vanya.
And then particularly this teaching, what we call in Vaidya Vanya teaching,
or empowerment, you are going to see.
This course belongs to the Yuma schools of Tibet Buddhism.
Yuma, again, we always took this part of the lineage,
part of the gratitude.
A member of the kindness of all those great practitioners, masters,
who transmitted this teaching as gratitude, we talk.
So this belongs to the Yuma teachers.
Yuma teaching is started at the century, until now.
This teaching is transmitted by, transmitted through two systems,
known as Gama and Thermas.
Gama is the origin lineage, time of Vibhava Masanbha.
Therma is later lineage.
Both lineage, these teachings are best upon Buddha teaching or the Gama teachings.
Gama is the best on the Buddha teaching.
Therma is the best on the Gama, Buddha teaching.
But Therma is the best on the Gama teaching, which is Buddha teaching.
Buddha Shakyamuni is teaching.
And that continues.
So through the two lineages, are maintained,
are kept, this lineage teaching,
exactly as it transmitted by the Buddha Shakyamuni,
Gama Masanbha, Great Master Shinta Rakkana.
They are really, entirely kept by their devotion, by their courage and commitment.
Nobody played any kind of intellectual games in the lineage systems.
They are kept exactly as it is.
As it started to play, as it distilled the water,
it distilled clay and distilled water, as water, the clean water,
that will remove thirsty and difficulties of everyone
and keep the regiments and keep the lives.
That is how this lineage.
And particularly this lineage is then taught by the Great Master.
Master known as Mohanobotyas.
Mohanobotyas is one of the great masters in the historian of the Tibetan Buddhism
or the indigenous Buddhism.
He is one of the very great masters, truly masters.
And he was scholar, hermitage, monk, and loki,
as simple hermitage.
Even though he became one of the great masters during that time,
but he just stayed so humble, so simple, drawn to the earth.
He stayed on the caves, mountains, and hermitages.
That is what the great master Mohanobotyas was.
And radiating his vow of love and the compassion of wisdom in every direction.
And he is activated by that with so many disciples
and reaching so many beings, enlightened,
both at the lateral level and the relational level.
So this teaching is the teaching by the Mohanobotyas.
It is a combination of the essence of the kamai and the dharma teachings.
In Mohanobotyas' studies, I convinced both kamai and dharma teachings
as a single, short, simple practice of the Vedya Upanish.
So that is the one.
And so this teaching then has become very popular practices of the new ones.
And as well as the Gaju schools of Tibetan Buddhism, too.
And beautiful practices.
And I received this teaching from the great master,
my beloved brother, and let that not teach or let catch in particular.
I received this teaching.
As I received, I'm offering you this empowerment.
So that's how the lineage of this teaching is.
Now I talk really about empowerment, breathing.
Again, you all know you're receiving empowerment.
Many of you know the meaning of the empowerment.
But again, I talk as part of the lineage.
And my post now, what means empowerment?
Empowerment has two things, cause and condition.
The cause and condition.
And when the cause and condition combine, then you receive the empowerment.
You receive the empowerment.
And when the cause and the condition perfectly catch together as harmonized,
then what it does?
It makes change. It blooms slower, or resolve whatever that is.
So now, what is the cause of enlightenment, or sorry, empowerment?
Cause of empowerment is each of our own potential.
Our own ordinary nature of the mind, potential.
This is what Buddha Kshaktamuni named, the Ogratius teacher,
Buddha Kshaktamuni named, Buddha Nature.
We all have the Buddha Nature.
And no one is absent of the Buddha Nature, anyone.
Everyone has Buddha Nature.
You have Buddha Nature, I have Buddha Nature, everyone has Buddha Nature.
And this Buddha Nature is the cause of the enlightenment.
Or cause of enlightenment, also cause of the empowerment.
Because of that, you receive the empowerment.
And how is this Buddha Nature is?
Again, that was the gracious teacher, Buddha Kshaktamuni, explained.
Many teachings in Mahayana, particularly this teaching,
which is explained very bitterly of the Buddha Nature,
is known as third turning wheel of dharma.
But I cannot give teaching about this on the post,
this turning wheel of dharma, and nor in the second turning wheel of dharma.
But he gave this teaching so detailed, precisely in third turning wheel of dharma,
and as well as then in the Mahayana teachings.
And how this Buddha Nature is?
That is a great master or great teacher, Buddha Kshaktamuni said,
it is Samadhi Raji Sutras, known as Samadhi Raji Sutra,
in the Tibetan it is known as Tingyin-zi Yapung-do.
In that teaching he said,
clear, pure, undisturbed, uncombounded, and cannot be disturbed.
That is Buddha Nature.
Dharma, dharma, you must say, luminous, clear light.
Clear light, luminous, undisturbed, uncheckable, pure.
And clean, that is the Buddha Nature.
It is unconformed.
That is our Buddha Nature.
That is residing right now with us, ourselves.
This is also known as, it is not just newly arrived,
it is a continuation from the beginner's time after now.
That is what it is.
But present time, our Buddha Nature is
cobbled by many diluted, diluted conceptions,
or diluted films, diluted and diluted conceptions.
Those are known as Obscurations.
Obscurations block that.
Who did that Obscurations?
Who diluted, who diluted?
Nobody else by one's own self, one's own self-depth.
So these Obscurations are a creation of our own, our self.
And so therefore, in empowerment, when you receive,
it will begin to cleanse, purify that delusions.
Delusions.
Empowerment is like conditions.
When cause is there, there cause is there,
if you have the perfect conditions, then it begins to change.
That is the common knowledge that everybody knows.
If you have the perfect seed, clean, unaffected seed,
what we need now?
If we like to grow something, we have to have the beautiful conditions.
Perfect soil, perfect temperature, perfect cooking cake,
perfect warmness, and then what it comes?
The result, the fruit, even bloom, there is no need to be dull.
No need to be kind of thinking, is it going to happen or not happen?
It is going to happen.
Because cause is the perfect, and conditions are perfect,
perfectly applied, and that will bring the result.
This is not just a miracle, or somebody can't get stage and things to happen.
It is truly the law of the systems.
The law and the rule of the interdependent co-ordinations.
That will improve us.
So this empowerment is like conditions.
It is a condition when they apply to this,
then people begin to bring the result.
So that is how really empowerment.
Therefore, empowerment in Sanskrit is known as abhi sheka.
Abhi sheka is a translate in Tibet as pouring and dispelling.
Pouring and dispelling.
Pouring as P-U-R-I, I think, R-I-N-G, pouring, I believe.
What means pouring?
The authentic lineage and techniques are pouring
in our mind, the streams of the Buddha nature.
Nature.
And what is dispelling?
Dispelling that moment.
Moment, all the conceptions,
diluted, obscured, dispelling.
Pilling them.
Then what will happen?
Happening the window of light, of the origin of the Buddha nature,
of the origin of the Buddha window of the light.
For example, midst of the dark, heavy cloud sky,
if there is something going to happen, the weak send,
for a short time, short term for the window of the blue sky.
That happens.
Then what we have to do?
One view opens that.
We have to keep continuing.
Keep that maintaining.
That is known as practicing.
Keep continuing.
Then that is the window of our enlightenment,
of the Buddha nature.
It becomes wider, stronger, calmer,
and the midst of cloud are getting way, way, way.
And that means the complete reward
of the origin of the natural exile as it is,
that is known as enlightenment.
In the process of that cleansing, purification,
what is known is following the path.
Path.
You are going through the path
and you are going through the bhoomis.
So that is what is meaning of this empowerment,
really, about that.
And then our empowerment, that involvement,
what is that?
This involvement you are receiving through the meditation,
through the linear blessings,
through the mandala, and through the ritual objects.
These four combinations, you are receiving empowerment.
That is like conditions, receiving them.
So that is my brief introductions of the empowerment.